# Ising Model

This repository contains code, plots and documents pertaining to the implementation of a two-dimensional [Ising model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ising_model) for the Physics 344 course at Stellenbosch University.

## Contents

* `Makefile` - makefile for C code.
* `docs/` - documents relating to the assignment.
* `out/` - contains data produced by the model, as well as Python scripts to plot these. In each case the plots may be generated by executing the Python script in the folder using `python3 {script}.py {data_file}.csv`.
    - `autocorr/` - plots of autocorrelation.
    - `equil/` - plots depicting how the program determines the equilibration time.
    - `final_plots/` - selection of plots that were pasted into my workbook.
    - `phase/` - plots of the phase diagram.
    - `specific_heat/`
    - `spins/` - animation of lattice.
* `src/` - contains the source code.
    - `double_ran0.h` - provides function to generate random doubles.
    - `ising.c` - main program file.
    - `ising.h` - header file containing constants and function prototypes for `ising.c`.
    - `ran0.h1` - provides function to generate random ints.

## Compilation & Execution

Any functionality you wish to test may be implemented by modifying the code in the `main` function.

The code may be compiled by running the following command in the project's main directory.
```
make
```

Thereafter the program may be executed by running,
```
./ising
```

## Plotting output

Each subfolder of the `out/` directory contains a Python script which may be used to plot any output. The usage is as follows.
```
python3 {script}.py {data_file}.csv
```

For example, in the `equil/` directory use,
```
python3 plot_equil.py some_file.csv
```

To quickly create plots for each output file, use the following command
```
find . -name "*.csv" -exec python3 plot_equil.py {} \;
```
Similarly, this command may be used in other directories for plotting multiple outputs.
